# Building Professional Self-Awareness

## Strengths and Weaknesses

### Strengths

I have a lot of technical knowledge; I have been working with
computers and programming since 1981 and have acquired substantial
experience working with personal and open source projects. I have also
written some fairly large projects for my employers, but never in a
formal capacity as a software developer.

I am mature and well-acclimated to the workplace. I have always been
punctual and dedicated to my employer's values. I have usually ended
up having a side role in training, and am often a shop steward, a role
requiring the respect and trust of both co-workers and management.

### Weaknesses

I have very little personal assertiveness. I have never sought a
promotion or applied to a job that required a resume or competitive
interview. I also end up with an unreasonable number of
responsibilities because I have a hard time turning down requests on
my own account, despite usually being quite skilled and assertive in
my role as a shop steward at making sure that the other employees in
my shop were not penalized for turning down assignments outside of
their job description.

With the exception of a very small handful of relatives and childhood
friends I do not maintain friendships, and even in that case I have no
friendships that I maintain on an in-person basis; in fact, I have not
met any of my friends in person for almost two decades. Nor do I
associate with my coworkers except at work or on rare occasions
organized group activities arranged by the union or my employer. This
sometimes leads to feelings of lack of inclusion, and not being sure I
am accepted as a complete equal by my coworkers.

### Impostor Syndrome

My lack of assertiveness contributes to impostor syndrome because it
makes it very hard for me to believe that I will be able to prove
myself to a potential employer if that employer does not have a
reputation of hiring everyone who applies. The fact that I easily
acclimate to workplaces causes me to not have a lot of motivation to
improve my situation or have an advanced career.

## Smart Goal

I plan to overcome these weaknesses by setting a quota for submitting
a certain number of resumes per day, and following up on all resumes
submitted on a set time frame. This is a specific action and the quota
makes it easy to measure whether it is being achieved. I will set the
quota at a level that makes it achievable. It is relevant because it
specifically address my lack of comfort regarding the job application
process. The daily nature of the quota ties it closely to the passage
of time.
